Hyperledger Project

Healthcare Working Group (HCWG) Meeting

July 27, 2018 


Resources:

Rocket.Chat:  chat.hyperledger.org (you can use your LFID to login)

Github:  www.github.com/hyperledger

Wiki:  https://wiki.hyperledger.org
Public lists:  lists.hyperledger.org
Meetings:  wiki.hyperledger.org/community/calendar-public-meetings
Rapid Healthcare: https://www.rapid-healthcare.com/
Medicalchain: https://medicalchain.com/en/


Summary
Rapid Healthcare and Medical Chain were invited by patient subgroup to speak with the main group.
  * Rapid Healthcare is concerned with donor milk use case
  * Medical Chain is concerned with “patient health data across silos” use case 

Meeting notes
Marissa update: to get GitHub up, a hyperledger lab application has to be submitted. Marissa is working on that, Angela has started code which will be placed on GitHub when the application is approved. 
Rapid Healthcare
Anton and Ron are located in Southern CA where they work with NICU (infant ICU) to track both mother’s milk and donor’s milk to ensure that babies are fed from the correct milk supply at the correct time. 
They discovered a bigger problem through this work. There is a human milk shortage.  Hospitals need 80 million units, the supply is 20 million units. 
Rapid Healthcare would like help developing a blockchain solution for a national or global network. 
There are a mix of for-profit, coop, and not-for-profit milk (NFP) banks
Lactating women are either uncompensated or undercompensated for donating. 
Human milk is sold for between $4 per ounce (NFP) to $16 per ounce (for profit).
There is a huge first mile problem, there is little incentive to donate milk
Get donors compensated
Milk banks need to track inventory
National tracking of supply and demand
NICU unable to procure donor milk
Federal and State government regulation down the road
Bring in international donor milk source
Trace all source so that contamination can be controlled thru the distribution 
No state or federal oversight currently
Except California, Oregon, Washington, Massachusetts to begin exploring oversight
How to move from proof of concent to enterprise? To final business product? How to get all milk banks on the same page? Using GS1 (international standard bar code) technology to track milk?
Getting guidance on end-to-end story - tech is doable, how to transition to full product. Others at hyperledger have done so, just not in healthcare yet. 
